# Error 404 Compiler

The **Error 404 Compiler** is a project that implements the lexical and syntactic components of a compiler. For this project, we used a fictional programming language called Error 404. The compiler processes the source code and generates a corresponding syntax tree.

## Overview

The project consists of two main components: the Lexical Analyzer and the Syntactic Analyzer (LR(1) Parser). The Lexical Analyzer processes the source code, tokenizing it into meaningful units. The Syntactic Analyzer uses LR(1) parsing techniques to analyze the syntactic structure of the code based on a predefined grammar.

## Components

### Lexical Analyzer

The lexical analyzer (`lexical_analyzer.py`) is responsible for tokenizing the source code written in the predefined language. It recognizes and categorizes lexical elements such as keywords, identifiers, operators, and literals. The lexer uses a set of predefined rules to convert the source code into a sequence of tokens.

### Syntactic Analyzer (LR(1) Parser)

The syntactic analyzer (`syntactic_analyzer.py`) implements an LR(1) parser for predefined language. It processes the tokens generated by the lexical analyzer and constructs a syntax tree based on a given context-free grammar. The LR(1) parser handles the syntactic structure of the code, identifying valid sequences of tokens according to the grammar rules.

## How It Works

1. **Lexical Analysis:** The Lexical Analyzer reads the source code from a file (`program.txt`), identifies lexical elements, and generates a sequence of tokens. Reserved keywords, identifiers, operators, and literals are categorized during this phase.

2. **Syntactic Analysis:** The Syntactic Analyzer uses the LR(1) parsing technique to analyze the syntax of the source code. It constructs LR(1) items, computes the closure, and generates the LR(1) parsing table. The parser processes the token sequence and builds a syntax tree based on the context-free grammar for the language.

3. **Results:** The results of the parsing process, including the syntax tree and any errors encountered.

## Usage
1. Define the grammar rules in a text file (`grammar.txt`).

2. Write the sample program in a separate file (`program.txt`).

3. Generate the lexems:

```bash
python lexic.py  
```
4. Execute the syntactic analyzer:

```bash
python syntactic.py  

```
5. The compiler will analyze the grammar, tokenize the input program, and perform syntax analysis, providing detailed results and error messages, written to an output file (`syntactic_result.txt`).
